BoundedSourceQueue API (#29770)
akka/akka: akka-docs/src/main/paradox/stream/operators/Source/queue.md

# Source.queue

> Materialize a `SourceQueue` or `BoundedSourceQueue` onto which elements can be pushed synchronously or asynchronously for emitting from the source.

Reviewer: Here's a suggestion of giving an overview about the options right away (I found the distinction between `synchronous` and `asynchronous` not really descriptive as a user coming to this page):

```suggestion
Materialize a `BoundedSourceQueue` or `SourceQueue` onto which elements can be pushed for emitting from the source.

The `BoundedSourceQueue` is an optimized variant of the `SourceQueue` with `OverflowStrategy.dropNew`. The `BoundedSourceQueue` will give immediate, synchronous feedback whether an element was accepted or not and is therefore recommended for situations where overload and dropping elements is expected and needs to be handled quickly.

In contrast, the `SourceQueue` offers more variety of `OverflowStrategies` but feedback is only asynchronously provided through a @scala[`Future`]@java[`CompletionStage`] value. In cases where elements need to be discarded quickly at times of overload to avoid out-of-memory situations, delivering feedback asynchronously can itself become a problem. This happens if elements come in faster than the feedback can be delivered in which case the feedback mechanism itself is part of the reason that an out-of-memory situation arises.

In summary, prefer `BoundedSourceQueue` over `SourceQueue` with `OverflowStrategy.dropNew` especially in high-load scenarios. Use `SourceQueue` if you need one of the other `OverflowStrategies`.
```

Author: I initially had more content above the fold like you suggested, but a docs post-processing step didn't like it.  I'll take another look to see if I can make that work.

Author: It looks like a rule was explicitly created to keep the description one line (to keep it short).

https://github.com/akka/akka/blob/master/project/StreamOperatorsIndexGenerator.scala#L244-L248

I like your description though, so I'll try to make it work with the rule intact.

@ref[Source operators](../index.md#source-operators)

> ## Signature (synchronous)

Reviewer: Maybe let's use the name of the materialized queue as the identifier for the two variants?

```suggestion
## Signature (`BoundedSourceQueue`)
```

Author: :+1:

@apidoc[Source.queue](Source$) { scala="#queue[T](bufferSize:Int):akka.stream.scaladsl.Source[T,akka.stream.scaladsl.BoundedQueueSource[T]]" java="#queue(int)" }

## Description (synchronous)

Materialize a `BoundedQueueSource` onto which elements can be pushed for emitting from the source.
The queue contains a buffer that can be used by many producers on different threads.
When the buffer is full, the `BoundedQueueSource` will not accept more elements.

> The return value of `BoundedQueueSource.offer()` immediately returns a `QueueOfferResult` (as opposed to an asynchronous value).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The return value of `BoundedQueueSource.offer()` immediately returns a `QueueOfferResult` (as opposed to an asynchronous value as with `SourceQueue).
```

Author: :+1:

> A synchronous result important in order to avoid situations where offer acknowledgements are handled slower than the rate of which elements are offered, which will eventually lead to an OOM error.

Author: :+1:

# Source.queue

Materialize a `SourceQueue` or `BoundedSourceQueue` onto which elements can be pushed for emitting from the source.

@ref[Source operators](../index.md#source-operators)

## Signature

> ### Non-Asynchronous API

Author: :+1:

@apidoc[Source.queue](Source$) { scala="#queue[T](bufferSize:Int):akka.stream.scaladsl.Source[T,akka.stream.scaladsl.BoundedQueueSource[T]]" java="#queue(int)" }

### Asynchronous API

@apidoc[Source.queue](Source$) { scala="#queue[T](bufferSize:Int,overflowStrategy:akka.stream.OverflowStrategy):akka.stream.scaladsl.Source[T,akka.stream.scaladsl.SourceQueueWithComplete[T]]" java="#queue(int,akka.stream.OverflowStrategy)" }
@apidoc[Source.queue](Source$) { scala="#queue[T](bufferSize:Int,overflowStrategy:akka.stream.OverflowStrategy,maxConcurrentOffers:Int):akka.stream.scaladsl.Source[T,akka.stream.scaladsl.SourceQueueWithComplete[T]]" java="#queue(int,akka.stream.OverflowStrategy,int)" }

## Description

The `Source.queue` has two underlying implementations

- A bounded queue that returns a result immediately when an element is offered.
- A bounded queue that returns an async callback as a @scala[`Future`]@java[`CompletionStage`] when an element is offered.

### Non-Asynchronous API

Materialize a `BoundedQueueSource` onto which elements can be pushed for emitting from the source.
The queue contains a buffer that can be used by many producers on different threads.

> When the buffer is full, the `BoundedQueueSource` will drop all elements that are offered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the buffer is full, the `BoundedQueueSource` will not accept further elements.
```

Author: :+1:
